---
title:  "Macaron"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [Dessert]
tags: [food, foodphotography, foodblogger, foodbloggers, india, foodgasm, indianfood, love, foodcoma, foodporn,indiancooking, indianrecipe, foodlovers, indianfood, indianfoodbloggers, foodiesofinstagram, foodlove, indian, indiancouple, eatlocal, eathealthy, eatwell, desifood, trending, tasty, taste, yummyinmytummy, foodie, instafood, instafoodie, foodstagram, instagood, passionatepaprika, foodblog, easy, indian, recipe, mothersrecipe, cooking, easycooking, easyrecipe, simple, simplefood]
image: "/assets/images/used/macaroon.jpg"
---

This light and fluffy French dessert can be made in a variety of flavors and colors. It was an absolutely amazing experience, making these.

## Ingredients

### For Macrons

1 ¾ cups powdered sugar (210 g)
1 cup almond flour (95 g), finely ground
1 teaspoon salt, divided
3 egg whites, at room temperature
¼ cup granulated sugar (50 g)
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
2 drops pink gel food coloring

### Chocolate Ganache
two 4-ounce quality semi-sweet chocolate bars (113g each), finely chopped*
1 cup (8 ounces; 240ml) heavy cream or heavy whipping cream

## Method

### For Macron
1. Make the macarons: In the bowl of a food processor, combine the powdered sugar, almond flour, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and process on low speed, until extra fine. Sift the almond flour mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into a large bowl.
2. In a separate large bowl, beat the egg whites and the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt with an electric hand mixer until soft peaks form. Gradually add the granulated sugar until fully incorporated. Continue to beat until stiff peaks form (you should be able to turn the bowl upside down without anything falling out).
3. Add the vanilla and beat until incorporated. Add the food coloring and beat until just combined.
4. Add about 1/3 of the sifted almond flour mixture at a time to the beaten egg whites and use a spatula to gently fold until combined. After the last addition of almond flour, continue to fold slowly until the batter falls into ribbons and you can make a figure 8 while holding the spatula up.
5. Transfer the macaron batter into a piping bag fitted with a round tip.
6. Place 4 dots of the batter in each corner of a rimmed baking sheet, and place a piece of parchment paper over it, using the batter to help adhere the parchment to the baking sheet.
7. Pipe the macarons onto the parchment paper in 1.5-inch (3-cm) circles, spacing at least 1-inch (2-cm) apart.
8. Tap the baking sheet on a flat surface 5 times to release any air bubbles.
9. Let the macarons sit at room temperature for 30 minutes to 1 hour, until dry to the touch.
10. Preheat the oven to 300˚F (150˚C).
11. Bake the macarons for 17 minutes, until the feet are well-risen and the macarons don’t stick to the parchment paper.
12. Transfer the macarons to a wire rack to cool completely before filling.

### For Chocolate Ganache
1. Place chopped chocolate in a medium heat-proof bowl. Heat the cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until it begins to gently simmer. (Do not let it come to a rapid boil– that’s too hot!)2. Pour over chocolate, then let it sit for 2-3 minutes to gently soften the chocolate.
3. With a spoon, slowly stir until completely combined and chocolate has melted. The finer you chopped the chocolate, the quicker it will melt with the cream. 
4. Ganache can be ready to use as a drizzle or you can let it sit at room temperature to cool and thicken. 
5. It will fully cool within 2 hours. Refrigerating speeds this up, but the ganache will not cool evenly. Stir it a few times as it sets in the refrigerator so it remains even and smooth.
6. Once completely cool and thick, the ganache can be scooped with a spoon. You can also beat the cooled thickened ganache with a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment until light in color and texture, about 4 minutes on medium-high speed.

1. Add a dollop of ganache to one macaron shell. Top it with another macaron shell to create a sandwich. Repeat with remaining macaron shells and Ganache.
2. Place in an airtight container for 24 hours to “bloom”.