---
title:  "Pao Bhaji"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [Veg Maincourse]
tags: [food, foodphotography, foodblogger, foodbloggers, india, foodgasm, indianfood, love, foodcoma, foodporn,indiancooking, indianrecipe, foodlovers, indianfood, indianfoodbloggers, foodiesofinstagram, foodlove, indian, indiancouple, eatlocal, eathealthy, eatwell, desifood, trending, tasty, taste, yummyinmytummy, foodie, instafood, instafoodie, foodstagram, instagood, passionatepaprika, foodblog, easy, indian, recipe, mothersrecipe, cooking, easycooking, easyrecipe, simple, simplefood ]
image: "/assets/images/used/pao-bhaji.jpg"
---

This Pav Bhaji Recipe is spicy, so flavorful! If you have never had pav bhaji in your life, you are seriously missing out!

## Ingredients

- 2 large potatoes (boiled)
- 1/2 a small cauliflower (boiled)
- 1/2 of a large green pepper (boiled)
- 1/2 cup frozen green peas (boiled)
- 1 Tablespoon vegetable oil
- 3 Tablespoons butter
- 1 teaspoon cumin (jeera) seeds
- 2 medium Onion (finely chopped)
- 2 inch ginger or 1 Teaspoon (finely chopped)
- 7 cloves garlic or 1 Teaspoon (finely chopped)
- 2 Green chillies (finely chopped) 
3 large tomatoes, 425 grams, finely chopped
1/3 cup tomato puree, store bought
- 1.25 Teaspoon salt or to taste
- 1.25 cups water
1 tablespoon + 1 teaspoon pav bhaji masala, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon red chili powder, or to taste
2 teaspoons kasuri methi, also known as dried fenugreek leaves
- 3 Tablespoons Coriander (finely chopped)
- 1 large lemon (juice)

## Method

1. Boil the veggies first and keep them ready. I used my pressure cooker to boil them until they were soft and tender. 
2. Heat 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon of oil in a large pot on medium heat. 
3. Once the butter melts and oil is hot, add the cumin seeds and let them sizzle.
4. Add the chopped onions and mix. I used my food processor to chop them really fine.
5. Cook the onions for around 4 minutes until golden brown in color. 
6. Add the finely chopped ginger, garlic and green chili.  
7. Cook the ginger-garlic-green chilli for 1 minute.
8. Add chopped tomatoes and mix well. Let the tomatoes cook for 2 minutes.
9. Add tomato puree, 1/4 cup water and 1/4 teaspoon salt. 
10. Cover the pan and let the tomato cook for 6 minutes until softened and completely cooked.
11. Add the pav bhaji masala, red chili powder and remaining 1 teaspoon of salt. You may also add 1/2 teaspoon of sugar here (optional).
12. Mix well and then add in 2 teaspoons of kasuri methi (dried fenugreek leaves).
13. Stir in the boiled veggies and mix. 
14. Using a potato masher, mash the veggies until they are completely mixed with the masala.
15. Add the remaining 3/4 - 1 cup water and mix.
16. Cover the pot and set heat to low. Let the bhaji simmer on low heat for 15 minutes.
17. Open the pot and add in the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter.
18. Add a generous amount of chopped coriander.
19. Add juice of 1 large lemon. 
20. Let the bhaji simmer for 2 more minutes and then remove pan from heat.

