---
title:  "Dhokla"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [Snacks]
tags: [food, foodphotography, foodblogger, foodbloggers, india, foodgasm, indianfood, love, foodcoma, foodporn,indiancooking, indianrecipe, foodlovers, indianfood, indianfoodbloggers, foodiesofinstagram, foodlove, indian, indiancouple, eatlocal, eathealthy, eatwell, desifood, trending, tasty, taste, yummyinmytummy, foodie, instafood, instafoodie, foodstagram, instagood, passionatepaprika, foodblog, easy, indian, recipe, mothersrecipe, cooking, easycooking, easyrecipe, simple, simplefood ]
image: "/assets/images/used/dhokla.jpg"
---

This fluffy, light and low cal snack makes the best tea time partner ever!

## Ingredients

### For Dhokla

- 200 Grams Gram flour (2 cups)
- 1/6th Teaspoon Turmeric - optional
- 3/4th Teaspoon Salt or as per taste 
- 1 Teaspoon Green chili paste - optional
- 1 Teaspoon Ginger paste 
- 2 Tablespoon Lemon juice 
- Little less than 3/4th Teaspoon Eno salt 

### For Tadka
- 1 Tablespoon Oil 
- 1/2 Teaspoon Rye 
- 2-3 Green chili (cut into 2 pieces lengthwise)
- 1/4th Teaspoon Salt or as per taste
- 1 Teaspoon Sugar 
- 1 Teaspoon Lemon juice (optional)
- 1 Tablespoon Coriander leaves (finely chopped)

## Method

### For the dhokla
1. Sieve the gram flour and take it out in a vessel. Add a little water, stir it with a spoon, there should be no lumps in the solution.
2. Add turmeric powder to the mix.
3. Cover the gram flour solution for 20 minutes so that the gram flour can swell.
4. In the utensil in which you want to make Dhokla, Grease the utensil with oil.
5. Add lemon juice, salt, green chilli paste, ginger paste to the gram flour mixture and mix well. 
6. Now put eno salt in this mixture and stir the mixture with a spoon as soon as the air bubble comes in the mixture, immediately put the mixture in the plate and place the plate in a steamer. 
7. The water should be hot in the bowl, there should be steam. 
8. Cover this vessel and cook it on Dhokla for about 20 minutes on medium flame or two minutes in a microwave.
9. Dhokla is cooked, (For the test, prepare the tip of the knife in the cooked dhokla, the mixture does not stick to the tip of the knife). 
10. Dhokla has been made, turn off the gas, take out the plate of Dhokla from the pot, let it cool.
11. With a knife separate the Dhokla from the edge. 
12. Take another plate and overturn the dhokla. 
13. Cut dhokla into small squares with a knife.

### For the Tadka:
1. Put oil in a small pan, after oil is heated, add mustard seeds, after fry the mustard seeds, add green chilli and fry them lightly.
2. Now add half cup of water (100 grams of water) to this spice, also add salt and sugar. 
3. Turn off the gas after boiling, and mix lemon juice. 
4. Put this tempering all over the dhokla with a spoon. 
5. Garnish with green coriander or grated coconut. 
6. Serve hot or cold, as per your preference.


