---
title:  "Egg Curry"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [Non-Vegetarian]
image: "/assets/images/used/egg-curry.jpg"
---

A simple recipe boiled egg masala curry recipe, bursting with flavour.

## Ingredients

- 4 Eggs 
- 1 Bayleaf 
- 1/2 Tablespoon Ginger chopped 
- 2 Green chilly chopped 
- 1/2 Teaspoon Turmeric (haldi))
- 6 Tablespoon Oil 
- 2 Teaspoon Cumin (jeera)
- 1/2 Tablespoon Garlic chopped 
- 1 Cup Onions chopped finely
- 1 Teaspoon Red Chilly powder 

## Method

1. Boil eggs (Place 4 eggs in a deep vessel and cover it with water. Turn on the gas and bring it to a boil, lower the heat to medium to gently boil the eggs for 10 mins. Turn off the heat and let them sit for another minute.)
2. Remove the eggs and place them in a bowl of tap water. Let them sit there for 2-3 minutes or till they are cool enough to handle. 
3. Peel off the shell, keep them aside. 
4. In a separate pan heat 4tbsp oil and add bayleaf and cumin. Stir for few seconds and add chopped garlic and ginger. 
5. Stir for a minute and add chopped onions. Cook the onion for 10 minutes. 
6. Once they start to turn brown add green chilly chopped, turmeric, chilly powder and coriander powder. 
7. Stir quickly and add tomato puree. Cook the masala till oil starts to ooze out from the side of the masala. 
8. Out of the 4 eggs keep 2 eggs aside and with the other 2 eggs slice them from the centre. Remove the yolks, mash them and add it to the masala.
9. Roughly chop up the whites and keep aside. 
10. Stir for a minute and then add 2.5 cups of water. Let it come to a boil and then let it simmer. 11. Add salt. 
12. Now in a separate pan heat 2 tbsp of oil and swirl the pan. Add the remaining 2 eggs and toss them gently to lightly brown them on all sides. 
13. Remove and add them to the simmering masala along with chopped egg whites and chopped coriander. 
14. Stir and add methi powder, check for salt and remove. 
15. Garnish with coriander and serve with paranthas.

