---
title:  "Samosa"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [Veg Snacks]
tags: [food, foodphotography, foodblogger, foodbloggers, india, foodgasm, indianfood, love, foodcoma, foodporn,indiancooking, indianrecipe, foodlovers, indianfood, indianfoodbloggers, foodiesofinstagram, foodlove, indian, indiancouple, eatlocal, eathealthy, eatwell, desifood, trending, tasty, taste, yummyinmytummy, foodie, instafood, instafoodie, foodstagram, instagood, passionatepaprika, foodblog, easy, indian, recipe, mothersrecipe, cooking, easycooking, easyrecipe, simple, simplefood, snacks, samosa, fried, friedsnacks, fritters ]
image: "/assets/images/used/samosa.jpg"
---

Just the comfort food you need on a rainy day, with tea offcourse! 

## Ingredients
### For Covering
- 2 cup Refined Flour (maida)
- 1/4th Teaspoon Carrom Seeds (Ajwain)
- 1/2 Teaspoon Salt
- 1/4th Cup Oil
- 1/2 Cup Water

### For Filling
- 2 Teaspoon Oil
- 1 tsp cumin / jeera
- 1/2 Teaspoon Crushed Coriander Seeds
- 1/2 Teaspoon Fennel Seeds (saunf)
- Pinch Asafoetida (heeng)
- 1 inch ginger, finely chopped
- 1 chilli, finely chopped
- 1/2 Cup Peas 
- 1/2 Teaspoon Kashmiri Red chilli powder
- 1/2 Teaspoon coriander powder
- 1/4 Teaspoon Cumin powder (jeera powder)
- 1/2 Teaspoon Dry Mango Powder (amchur)
- 1/2 Teaspoon Garam Masala
- 1/4 Teaspoon Pepper powder
- 3/4 Teaspoon Salt
- 4 Potato (boiled & mashed)
- 5 Cashew chopped (kaju)- optional 
- 2 Tablespoons raisins (Kishmish)-optional
- 2 Tablespoon Coriander (finely chopped)

- Water for sealing samosas
- Oil for frying

## Method

1. Take a ball sized dough and grease with oil.
2. Roll the dough into oval shape.
3. Cut it horizontally, diving into 2 equal portions using a knife.
4. Grease with water and make cone.
5. Stuff 2 tbsp of prepared samosa masala into the cone.
6. Apply little water on the edges, close and seal tightly by pressing firmly.
7. Deep-fry the samosa on a low flame. alternatively bake at 180 degree Celsius for 40 minutes.
8. Stir occasionally, frying the samosa on low flame for atleast 15 minutes.
9. Once the samosa turns golden and crisp, drain off over kitchen paper.
10. Serve with green chutney and tamarind chutney.

### For stuffing

1. In a kadhai take 2 tsp oil and saute cumin, coriander seeds, fennel and pinch heeng.
2. Add ginger and chilly. saute for 10 seconds.
3. Add frozen peas and saute for two minutes.
4. Add chilli powder, coriander powder, cumin powder, aamchur, garam masala, pepper and salt.
5. Saute on low flame until spices turn aromatic.
6. Add mashed boiled potato (Two whistle)
7. Mash and mix well.
8. Add cashews, coriander and Raisins.
9. Let it cool.
